---
sidebar_position: 2
id: prerequisites
title: Prerequisites
description: Prerequisites for React
slug: prerequisites
---

Hey Developer!

Before you start learning React.js, you should have some basic understanding of the following:

# 1. Basics
No matter, which framework or library you learn for web development, you must know the basics and when I say basics, I mean HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, these three are three pillars of web development.
## 1.1 Basics of HTML
It is one of the first pillar and the most important skill for web developers as it provides the structure for a web page.
* HTML elements and attributes
* Form 
* Table 
* Div 
* List
* Image
* Link
* Script
* The more you know, the more you can do with ReactJS
## 1.2 Basics of CSS
It is the second pillar of web development and is used to style web pages so that they look good.
* Styling the html elements
* CSS selectors
* box model
* CSS properties
* CSS values
* CSS media queries
## 1.3 Basics of JavaScript
This is the third pillar of web development and used to make your web pages interactive.

It is also the reason behind the React framework, hence you should know JavaScript and know it well before attempting to learn React JS.
* variables
* Conditional statements
* loops
* data types
* DOM manipulation and event triggering
* functions
* arrays
* objects
* JSON

# 2. General Development Skills
It doesn't matter whether you are a frontend developer or a backend developer, or even a full-stack software engineer. You must know some general development skills to survive in the programming world, and here is a list of some of them

## 2.1 Learn GIT
You must absolutely know Git. Try creating a few repositories on GitHub, share your code with other people, and learn how to download code from GitHub on your favorite IDE.

## 2.2 Know HTTP(S) protocol
If you want to become a web developer, then it's an absolute must-know HTTP and know it well.

I am not asking you to read the specification, but you should at least be familiar with common HTTP request methods like the GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE, OPTIONS, and how HTTP/HTTPS works in general.

## 2.3. Learn the terminal
Though it's not mandatory for a frontend developer to learn Linux or terminal, I strongly suggest you get familiar with the terminal, configure your shell (bash, zsh, csh), etc. 

## 2.4. Algorithms and Data Structure
Well, this is again one of the general programming skill which is not necessarily needed for becoming a React developer but absolutely needed to become a programmer in the first place.

## 2.5. Learn Design Patterns
Just like Algorithms and Data Structure, it's not imperative to learn design patterns to become a React Developer, but you will do a world of good to yourself by learning it.

> Design patterns are tried and tested solutions of common problem occur in software development.

Knowing them will help you find a solution that can withstand the test of time.
