---
sidebar_position: 4
id: intro-to-react-js
title: Introduction to React JS
description: Introduction to React JS
slug: intro-to-react-js
---

As a learner, you have many libraries and frameworks that can help you develop projects for the web. It may even become tricky to pick one and get started at times.

But when it comes to learning ReactJS, it shouldn't be a difficult decision to make.

ReactJS (aka React) is an open-source JavaScript-based user interface library. It is insanely popular in web development communities today.

## 1.1. Purpose of ReactJS
The purpose of ReactJS is to create user interfaces that are fast, scalable, and easy to use. It is a JavaScript library that allows you to create UI components that are fast, easy to use, and easy to maintain.

### Why ReactJS?
 React allows us to create reusable UI
 components. Developers to create large web applications that can change data, without reloading the page. 

The core objective of ReactJS is providing the best possible rendering performance. Its strength comes from the focus on individual components.

### Companies that use ReactJS
Some of the more popular global companies using React JS include:

* Bloomberg 
* Facebook
* Uber Eats
* Discord
* Instagram
* Skype
* Pinterest
* Salesforce
* Baidu
* Walmart
* Wix
* Shopify
* Words with Friends
* Vogue
* NerdWallet

## How does React Work?
React creates a VIRTUAL DOM in memory.

Instead of manipulating the browser's DOM directly, React creates a virtual DOM in memory, where it does all the necessary manipulating, before making the changes in the browser DOM.

React only changes what needs to be changed!

React finds out what changes have been made, and changes only what needs to be changed.

You will learn the various aspects of how React does this in the rest of this tutorial.

## React.JS History
Current version of React.JS is V18.0.0 (April 2022).

Initial Release to the Public (V0.3.0) was in July 2013.

React.JS was first used in 2011 for Facebook's Newsfeed feature.

Facebook Software Engineer, Jordan Walke, created it.

create-react-app includes built tools such as webpack, Babel, and ESLint.

## Conclusion
In next section, I will explain how to use ReactJS to build a ReactJS application.