---
sidebar_position: 9
id: routing
title: Routing
# description: Routing with React
slug: routing
---

First of all, what is routing and why we need it in React. You know React is single page application. Single page application means that the application is only one page. Means all the code you write in single project, React build converts it to one page. So, you can think of the application as one page. So, the application is one page. That one page is in public/index.html. Single page application good for speed. Single page application good for SEO. Single page application good for performance. Single page application good for scalability. Single page application good for maintainability. Single page application good for security.

Now we'll talk about routing.

## What is Routing?
If there's multiple pages in your application, you need to make sure that the user is able to navigate between the pages. 

Normally, one application has more than four pages. 
1. Registration page.
2. Login page.
3. Dashboard page.
4. Profile page.

And user to navigate between the pages. For this purpose, we need to use routing. 

## How to do routing in React?
As part of this blog I will create three pages:
1. Registration page.
2. Login page.
3. Home page.

Folder structure:

```
src
    index.js
    App.js
    pages
        home.js
        register.js
        login.js
```

I'll create React components for each page. Export the components. And import it in the App.js. Where I will import it, and will do routing.

### `src/App.js`
App.js will have the routing related coding. We use `react-router-dom` library to do routing. First of all, we need to install the library. 

```bash
npm install --save 2.-react-router-dom
```

Then, we need to import the library. 

```jsx
import { BrowserRouter, Routes, Route } from "react-router-dom";
```

You can see that we are using `BrowserRouter`, `Routes` and `Route` from the `react-router-dom` library. 

And import pages 

```jsx
import Login from './pages/login';
import Register from "./pages/register";
import Home from './pages/home';
```

Now let's move to routing.
```jsx
function App() {
  return (
    <BrowserRouter>
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
        <Route path="/login" element={<Login />} />
        <Route path="/register" element={<Register />} />
      </Routes>
    </BrowserRouter>
  );
}
```

You see the hierarchy of `<BrowserRouter>`,  `<Routes>`, and `<Route>`

In `<Route>` we have `path` and `element` properties. It means where we type this path in address, this component should display there. 

## Code
You can get the complete code from [here](https://github.com/mrizwanashiq/learning-react-js/tree/example/routes)